(First, working with hibernate project we create a Maven project and we add Hibernate Core dependency.

 and then we go to resources folder and create hibernate.cfg.xml which is a configuration file for hibernate and we add all the properties in this file.

 Now we come to the Main steps we start the configuration file,

 for that we need to create a configuration object, and with this config obj we configure our xml file.

 after that, we need to build our Session Factory, and from Session Factory we get our Session. and we need to open Session.

 Now we need to begin the transaction.

 To save the Data, i.e. to insert, we use 'persist' method

 and we need to end the transaction.

 -- As this is a ORM framework, we won't write any queries. For that we create a java class which resembles our table in database.

 the java class which maps our database table is 'Entity' class.

 Entity -> fields are column names, and class name is table name. and each class must have a primary key in it.

 we annotate class which maps our table with annotation -> @Entity

 we annotate primary key with annotation -> @Id

 )

- Inorder to getting started with hibernate we need to first include the 'Hibernate Core' dependency in the pom.xml,
as we use Maven which is used for handling dependencies and is a Project Management Build Automation tool.

- And also we need a 'hibernate.cfg.xml' - configuration xml file, which can be get from hibernate tool (JBoss).

- STEPS (in hibernate connection) :
    (to talk with database we need Session and this Session comes from Session Factory. (Session Factory gives Session)
    Session will interact with Database. it performs the Database Operations.)
    1. Create a Configuration Object and configure.
               Configuration cfg = new Configuration();
               cfg.configure(hibernate.cfg.xml);
    2. Get Session Factory.
               SessionFactory sessionFactory = cfg.buildSessionFactory();
    3.
               Session session = sessionFactory.openSession();

(
  Note ----
  In hibernate (& also in JDBC), we generally won't prefer to do DDL operations. we don't do DDL through code.
  but we can do the DDL in hibernate by adding the property in hibernate.cfg.xml :-
  1. <property name="hibernate.hbm2ddl.auto">create</property> ->  This drop the existing table and creates the table again. Which is not good.
  2. <property name="hibernate.hbm2ddl.auto">create</property> -> This will update the table if exists. if not exists, creates and updates. this is good to use.
  ----
)

(
  Note ----
  There is another concept in Hibernate called 'Dirty Checking'.
  Even though you merge or do not merge anything into the database,
  once you begin the transaction and once you commit the transaction, all the intermediate operations on the java object will get merged into the database.
  ----
)

(
  Hibernate States -

  1. Transient - (java obj)Object has no relation with the session
  2. Persistent - Objects that are linked to session (performs dirty checking)
  3. Detached - Close the session to move objects to detached state.

  Hibernate does not perform Dirty Checking in Detached and Transient states.
)

(
  In Hibernate we can only get data of a single row at a time.
  But to get multiple rows at a time there is a concept called "HQL" -> Hibernate Query Language
  -- Ex: Select * from students -is written as -> select From Student --
)

